cat:a furry pet
dog:a barking friend
hat:you wear it
sun:hot in the sky
run:go fast
mum:your mummy
dad:your daddy
yes:means okay
no:means stop
car:a fast ride
bus:a big ride
red:a bright colour
blue:a sky colour
see:use your eyes
eat:chew food
fun:you like it
toy:you play with
bed:you sleep here
zoo:animals live here
cow:says moo
pig:says oink
duck:says quack
fish:swims fast
bird:flies high
tree:grows tall
leaf:green on trees
ball:you kick it
book:you read it
pen:you write with
cup:you drink from
box:holds stuff
bag:carries things
hot:feels warm
cold:feels chilly
big:not small
little:very tiny
me:its you
you:its them
we:us together
he:a boy
she:a girl
it:a thing
go:move now
stop:dont move
up:high place
down:low place
in:inside it
out:outside it
on:top of
off:not on
one:just 1
two:1 and 1
three:1 plus 2
four:2 plus 2
five:fingers on hand
hi:hallo there
bye:ta-ta for now
day:sun is up
night:moon is up
sky:above us
rain:wet drops
snow:cold flakes
wind:blows air
star:shines at night
moon:glows at night
jump:go up high
sit:rest down
walk:step step
play:have fun
hug:hold tight
kiss:a little peck
cry:tears fall
laugh:ha ha ha
sing:make songs
dance:move to music
draw:make pictures
cut:use scissors
glue:stick it
cake:yummy treat
milk:white drink
egg:from a hen
apple:red fruit
banana:yellow fruit
juice:sweet drink
hat:warm head
sock:foot cover
shoe:you wear it
coat:keeps you warm
nose:you smell with
eye:you see with
ear:you hear with
hand:you wave with
leg:you walk with
and:plus more
but:changes it
or:pick one
if:maybe so
my:its mine
your:its yours
love:feel happy
house:you live here
school:you learn here
teacher:helps you learn
friend:a playmate
family:your people
sister:a girl sibling
brother:a boy sibling
baby:a little one
puppy:a baby dog
kitten:a baby cat
rabbit:hops fast
horse:runs big
monkey:climbs trees
tiger:striped cat
lion:king of cats
bear:big and furry
snake:no legs
frog:jumps wet
turtle:slow mover
flower:pretty plant
grass:green ground
river:water flows
hill:small mountain
road:cars go here
bridge:over water
lorry:carries stuff
plane:flies high
boat:floats on water
train:long ride
green:forest colour
yellow:sun colour
purple:grape colour
orange:fruit colour
pink:soft colour
black:night colour
white:snow colour
happy:feel good
sad:feel down
cross:not happy
scared:feel afraid
sleepy:need rest
hungry:want food
thirsty:want drink
fast:go quick
slow:not fast
loud:big noise
quiet:no sound
hard:not soft
soft:feels nice
wet:like water
dry:not wet
good:nice
bad:not nicr
new:not old
old:not new
long:not short
short:not long
tall:not short
small:not big
look:see it
find:search for
give:hand over
take:grab it
help:make it better
wait:hold on
try:do your best
catch:grab out of the air
throw:toss
kick:hit with foot
ride:go on it
swim:move in water
climb:go up
slide:go down
swing:back and forth
build:make it
break:smash it
fix:mend it
clean:make neat
dirty:not clean
paint:use colours
biscuit:sweet crunchy snack
sweet:sugary treat
bread:soft food
cheese:Jerrys favourite
pizza:round meal
shirt:you wear it
trousers:leg covers
dress:pretty outfit for girls
gloves:hand warmers
mouth:you eat with
teeth:you chew with
hair:on your head
foot:you stand on
arm:you hug with
then:after that
now:this moment in time
here:this spot
there:that spot
adventure:a big trip
aeroplane:flies far
alligator:snappy jaws
amazement:wow feeling
ambulance:helps fast
astronaut:space person
beautiful:very pretty
binoculars:see far
bungalow:one floor house
butterflies:in your tummy
camouflage:hide well
caterpillar:crawly bug
centipede:lots of legs
chameleon:changes colour
cheetah:runs fastest
chimpanzee:funny ape
chrysalis:bug cocoon
cobblestone:old road
compass:shows north
continent:big land
creature:weird animal
cylinder:round shape
dangerous:not safe
delicious:yummy taste
detective:finds clues
discovery:find new
dragon:fire breather
earthworm:digs dirt
electricity:powers lights
enormous:super big
environment:around us
experiment:try it
extinct:gone forever
fabulous:really great
fantastic:super cool
festival:lots of fun
fireworks:bang in sky
flamingo:pink bird
fountain:water shoots
furniture:in your house
geography:land study
gorgeous:very nice
happiness:feel great
harmonica:mouth music
hibernate:sleep long
hurricane:big storm
iguana:spiky lizard
imagination:make believe
impossible:cant do
incredible:so amazing
instrument:makes music
invisible:cant see
jellyfish:stings sea
knowledge:what you know
labyrinth:mazy path
language:how we talk
leopard:spotty cat
librarian:book helper
locomotive:train puller
magnificent:big beauty
marsupial:pouch animal
medicine:makes better
meteorite:sky rock
microscope:see tiny
migration:birds move
mysterious:secret thing
narrative:story time
navigate:find way
nocturnal:night awake
nursery:baby room
observatory:star watch
opposite:not same
orchestra:music group
ornament:pretty thing
parachute:float down
peacock:fancy tail
penguins:slide on ice
periscope:look up
photograph:snap pic
playground:fun place
porcupine:spiky pal
prehistoric:very old
proudly:feel tall
puzzle:think hard
python:long snake
reflection:in mirror
reptilian:lizard like
ridiculous:silly much
satellite:sky machine
scorpion:stinger tail
sculpture:art shape
skeleton:bones inside
spectacular:wow show
squirrel:climbs quick
telescope:see stars
treasure:hidden gold
unbelievable:hard to trust
volleyball:bump it
wilderness:wild land
xylophone:ding music
vocabulary:word bank for a language
rigamarole:pointless dilly-dally
perfunctory:routine
anchor:holds ship  
balloon:blows up  
boots:protect feet  
bubble:blows air  
camera:takes photos  
cupcake:sweet dessert  
dragonfly:flying insect  
eggplant:purple vegetable  
flashlight:light in dark  
giraffe:long neck animal  
gloves:keep hands warm  
hammer:bang with it  
jacket:wear in cold  
jelly:soft sweet spread  
kangaroo:bouncy animal  
ladder:climb up  
lantern:light in a jar  
lighthouse:guides ships  
pillow:head rest  
pirate:sails the sea  
princess:royal girl  
pumpkin:orange gourd  
raccoon:masked animal  
scissors:cuts paper  
snowman:made of snow  
spaceship:flies in space  
teapot:holds hot drink  
toaster:cooks bread  
turtle:slow creature  
umbrella:keeps rain off  
vase:holds flowers  
watermelons:big juicy fruit  
wheel:turns round  
zebra:striped horse  
mailbox:letter box  
astronaut:space explorer  
truck:big vehicle  
submarine:underwater boat  
snail:slow shelled creature  
sloth:slow moving mammal  
trumpet:brass musical instrument  
wallet:holds money  
snowflake:snow shape  
microscope:looks at small things  
tornado:spinning wind  
waterpark:fun in water  
thermometer:measures heat  
parachute:falling protection  
waffle:sweet breakfast treat  
octopus:squidward  
oxygen:what we breathe  
piano:musical instrument  
quail:a small bird  
raccoon:nighttime animal  
rhinoceros:big horn animal  
robot:machine friend  
raincoat:protects from rain  
moonlight:light from the moon  
shadow:dark shape  
mirror:reflects your face  
waterfall:water falls down  
volcano:mountain of fire  
alley:narrow street  
bat:flies at night  
bell:rings with sound  
cactus:spiny desert plant  
cloud:puffy sky shape  
continent:huge landmass  
compass:shows directions  
corn:yellow grain  
dragon:breathes fire  
iguana:green lizard  
jacket:wear in cold  
jeep:offroad vehicle  
jungle:big forest  
kite:flies in the air  
lighthouse:guides ships safely  
melon:juicy fruit  
map:shows places  
marbles:round little balls  
microwave:heats food fast  
mittens:keeps hands warm  
moon:shines at night  
mushroom:grows in the ground  
octopus:sea creature  
opera:sung performance  
pencil:write with  
pizza:round cheesy food  
plane:flies in the sky  
bear:winnie the pooh  
pumpkin:squash fruit  
raccoon:nighttime animal  
rainbow:colourful arc  
robot:machine that moves  
school:learn new things  
spider:has eight legs  
squid:sea creature  
submarine:underwater vehicle  
